View this file at https://docs.google.com/a/sturgischarterschool.org/document/d/1kDdWPdcYB2ztbTGQQhwmLGHz41rpUzJtwBBUdrWezZE

Parking Lottery
(c) 2017 Sturgis Charter School, IB Computer Science class

Installing the parking lottery:
Install Python by going to https://www.python.org/downloads/.  Choose the latest version of Python 3.
Download the file parkinglottery.zip from https://drive.google.com/open?id=1slzm2C9vK-2xVy_OuVg5LJlbwNz8uh5K
"Unzip" this file (in Windows you right-click and choose Extract All…).  Move all the extracted files to the folder you want this program to live in.
Running the parking lottery:
Open the google spreadsheet of applicants and download it as a CSV file (File | Download... | .csv).
It is recommended you save the file in the same folder on your computer as the Python program 'ParkingLottery.pyw', but it can be saved anywhere you like.
If you wish, open the CSV file in Excel by double-clicking it, and make any changes or at least make sure it downloaded correctly.
Run 'ParkingLottery.pyw' by double-clicking it.  A window will pop up.

Enter the year of graduation for current seniors.  For example, if you are running this in Fall 2017, type '18.' 
Enter the number of available parking spaces. 
Click "Choose file…" and find the CSV spreadsheet file you just saved.
Then click 'Validate.'  The python program will check the spreadsheet for the following things:
that all email addresses are actual Sturgis-type addresses (grad year followed by name, @sturgischarterschool.org);
that each student's email grad year matches their stated grade (junior or senior)
that a student who is driving a carpool is not also listed as a passenger;
that students on JOL have not signed up as carpool drivers.
If any of these items is amiss, you'll see a message box that informs you, and gives you a chance to automatically fix it.  
After validation, you can open up the CSV spreadsheet in Excel again, and manually make any changes that are needed.  Save it and close Excel.
Back in the Parking Lottery window, click 'Run Lottery.'  Students will be assigned parking spots randomly according to the lottery rules.  The results will be saved in a separate spreadsheet called 'ParkingLotteryResults.csv.'  A summary with just names, emails, and parking spaces will be saved in a text file 'ParkingSpaces.txt'.
As the lottery is run, the results will be scrolled at the bottom of the window.  When it is finished, you can close the Parking Lottery program.
You can open the results in Excel by double-clicking the 'ParkingLotteryResults.csv' file; this file can also be uploaded back to Google Docs and converted to a Google Spreadsheet if you wish.

